Make an autopilot script for your analyses, so that figures (and even posters if you are feeling ambitious) are updated in real time while the data is collected. You can find some examples here. When I collect data, all of my imaging and behavioral analyses are updated and I get an email at the end of the day with figures. I literally do not intervene - this has saved me hundreds of hours. 

Use jupyter notebook for development of analysis pipelines.

Use atom for writing experimental code, scanner code, all other code besides interactive analysis. 
(Run scripts from atom with package "script")

Make a startup file so that your figures always are publication quality, from the get go, without modification. Save files in svg, or eps always. Just stop using pngs all together. 

Use shell scripts when you must, but these days python is quite the shapeshifter. 

Before you start down some major project that you will be committed to for years, understand the current literature in your topic. Understand very clearly why you are going to do what you are going to do. 

But if you do you need to modify try these tools

Beware of p-values. Stop using them if you can. And avoid null hypothesis significance testing. 

AI - PB, KJ
keynote - KD

Figures:
seaborn

Searching through the literature:
Pubmed:
Google-scholar:
PaperPile (and its integration with Pubmed)

Useful statisticians
andrewgelman.com

Bayesian statistics. 

Explanation of bootstrap, cross val and permtuation test. 
slides

http://www.the100.ci/author/anne/

Twitter is your friend

Find articles before they are officially published on arxiv

For writing papers, grants, etc, see KK 10 rules for writing papers. 

Never show up empty handed to meetings with your PI, have a clear objective to the meeting, and be able to show some evidence of your productivity, even if it is a simple as a literature review. 

You will have some weeks where nothing worked and you will have to meet with your PI without the thing you were supposed to have. I found that in those cases it is very useful to have a "rainy day" folder containing interesting analyses/figures your advisor has not yet seen. 

Become a pro at bash syntax - it will seriously save you a lot of time. And get a mechanical keyboard while you are at it. So that your labmates love you. But for real, learn to hotkey everything. 
https://ss64.com/bash/syntax-keyboard.html

Doing statistics:
http://journals.plos.org/ploscompbiol/article?id=10.1371/journal.pcbi.1004961

rsync

